We want to go now to
Gaza, because right now in Gaza,
there is no electricity.
The head of the power authority tells CNN
that the one power station
has run out of fuel
and that it's no longer working.
It's part of Israel's promised siege
of the Palestinian enclave.
And of course, the death toll in Gaza,
as we have it,
above 1000 people, injuries
mounting above 5000.
Now, all this together
making the humanitarian,
humanitarian situation
there even more dire for civilians.
Gaza's hospitals and morgues,
we are told, are filling up.
CNN's Salma
Abdelaziz is following the story
from London.
Salma,
tell us what you're learning
from the Gaza side of this story.
And you've just revealed
some of those numbers.
More than a thousand
killed so far, one in ten Gazans over
nearly a quarter million people
essentially have been displaced
from their homes.
Hospitals say
that they're running on generator power,
but soon they'll run out of fuel.
Morgues are overwhelmed.
People have nowhere to go in.
All of this
is only the beginning
of a lengthy conflict.
You heard there from our colleague
Jeremy Diamond
speaking about the reservist
on the ground.
So far, all you're seeing
is Israel's air assault,
a continuous battering of the strip.
You haven't yet seen a ground in courage.
And, of course, that's highly expected.
And would only amplify
the suffering there.
It's important to know
that there are about 2 million
Gazans, 2 million people
who are trapped
in that tiny coastal strip.
There is even before this conflict,
a blockade that's existed there
for more than 15 years.
It imposes
travel restrictions
that make it nearly impossible
for most average people to leave.
And you have to remember that
Hamas treats
Gaza like it is its own back yard.
There have been no elections in Gaza
for many,
many years now
since Hamas seized control in 2007.
So the people there have no say
in what Hamas does,
but they absolutely bear
the brunt of the consequences
of the consequences of this conflict.
You already have rights groups
ringing the alarm,
saying that the siege that Israel
has imposed, cutting off food
cutting off fuel, cutting off water,
that that is collective punishment,
that it is
a violation of international law.
But Israel is undeterred.
The defense minister was on the border
just a few hours ago
meeting with Israeli troops, saying
the gloves are off.
There are no restraints.
Gaza will never be the same again.
Of course, these words
are haunting the many families right now
living under bombardment
Is there any sense now
when we look at these strikes, is Israel
still giving warning of the strikes
in advance to allow for civilians to move
from the buildings,
their homes
or elsewhere before the bombs drop?
I think what you're referencing
is the knock on the door.
It's actually a form of strike
that, you know, in
the past has been used on homes
to give them some warning.
Actually, an Israeli
official was asked about that
by CNN and his response was,
well,
Hamas did not give us a knock
before they carried out
their surprise attack,
before they carried out their assault.
So the answer
sort of vaguely there being
no civilians
are not being given a heads up.
We've also heard eyewitness accounts
of the same on the ground.
Israeli officials
have also been asked about cutting off
food cutting off fuel, cutting off water.
Is this not collective punishment?
And their response has also been
we cannot be expected to provide
for the Gaza Strip while we are at war
with the Gaza Strip.
And that's absolutely the problem here.
Again, 2 million
people
trapped in this deeply
impoverished enclave
are absolutely caught in the middle
They have no say
when Hamas fires a rocket,
but they will get the vengeance for it.
And summer,
we've been hearing just awful
stories of people who were in Gaza
who say you know,
they hear
from the authorities,
go to the south, they go to the south,
and then the south
is hit with airstrikes.
They hear from authorities,
go to the north and in the north.
And so,
you know,
for all of the folks
that are in Gaza,
more than 2 million people,
just just really difficult days ahead.
Sam Abdul Aziz, thank you, Salma.
And Christiane
is on the other side of the screen.
We can see
as the sun is setting
in Gaza, you can see just how dark it is
as they mean
the one and only power station in Gaza.
Reports that the power is out
and generators
that are there,
they will have
or will soon be running out of fuel.
This is our first
look at what power out in Gaza
is going to mean.
And to your point about how civilians
that want to get out of harm's way
want to get out of Gaza,
what they're up against.
In doing so,
there are these third party talks
about potentially
getting humanitarian corridors out.
An IDF spokesperson was on with us
earlier this earlier in the show.
And I asked her where she
where the IDF thinks
that civilians in Gaza should go
if they want to get out
of the out of harm's way.
Let me play what she said
Of course, I would
say that
if they do receive any kind of advance
warning to simply put distance
from where they are
and go somewhere else,
even within the Strip
and beyond that there is another border
that the Gaza Strip has with Egypt.
And, you know, I can't speak to that
to that situation at this stage,
just showing kind of
to your point,
the lack of clarity on exactly
what it's going to look like
going forward.
It's not open.
The other side is not open.
And the people in Gaza
do not have anywhere to go.
The Israelis have said
they are going to try
to warn people when they bomb.
But we were talking to a doctor inside
Gaza last night
who said the warning amounts
to a sort of a first tap,
the quote unquote, small rocket
warning people
and hopefully they can get out in time
before the big ones,
the big bombs come down and and level
the the buildings,
which is what's happened.
They are, according to the U.N.,
some 150 or so thousand Gazans
who've already taken refuge at U.N.
facilities, including UNWRA,
as it's called, schools
and other such facilities.
But that's only a small percentage.
And I think really,
it goes to the question
that Sara also asks,
what is the end game?
Because it is,
for instance, Hamas
setting up traps
for Israeli forces as is being warned.
Does it want to try to drag
Israel into a quagmire?
Does it want to spark a regional conflict
conflagration by doing this
and more importantly,
even if Israel manages to decimate Hamas,
then who takes over?
Does Israel re-occupy?
Who then?
What then?
There's so many questions,
but Israel's aim right now
should not be misunderstood.
It is to retain and regain rather
the deterrence that it
has lost since Saturday.